the open road is said to be an
especially American fascination for many
it symbolizes freedom Commerce and
adventure cars and highways have been at
the center of American culture and pop
culture and have played an essential
role in US history but many Americans
seem to have a pretty low opinion of the
roads they actually drive on take a
20-18 poll from Monmouth University
which found that almost a quarter of
Americans say their local roads and
bridges are in poor condition and
another 41 percent say their roads and
bridges are merely in fair condition as
opposed to good or excellent more than
30 percent say there are roads in their
areas in need of urgent repair I think
it's important for most Americans to
realize that our road system is
stretched thin in this country Americans
traveled three point two trillion miles
last year on our roads and that's a 12
billion mile increase from just a year
before and if you look back twenty years
that's a six hundred and twelve billion
mile increase so people like to travel
which puts a strain on our roads so is
it fair to say that US roads are in bad
shape well some say yes and some say
maybe not it's fair it's fair it is it
is the roads the surface transportation
system of the United States needs some
serious attention right now you know we
do this infrastructure report card every
four years so in 2017 we graded the
roads of the United States a critical
part of the infrastructure which most
people feel every day that was a grade
of D
the American Society of Civil Engineers
research is widely cited but it should
be noted the group represents people who
do the work of building and fixing roads
and bridges however other evidence
indicates the country is falling behind
on road construction and repair the most
current data on pavement quality from
2018 indicates that 20% of the nation's
major roads and highways essentially
everything other than local and
neighborhood roads have pavements in
poor condition while 32 percent of urban
roads have pavements in bad shape
according to trip what we hear from
transportation agencies is that's the
roughness that's the the smoothness of
the pavements that's what matters to us
as consumers as public driving on the
road but what they see happening at the
same time is the subgrade the surface is
underneath the roads are actually
deteriorating faster than they can get
through them and so the challenge is
they want to maintain the pavement
smoothness so the public can see that
the pavements are being maintained in
relatively good condition but what keeps
them up at night is they know they're
not doing the long term work to keep
major roads and major highways in good
condition in the long term bear in mind
that urban roads carry about 70% of the
nation's traffic those numbers have
remained relatively stable since 2014 a
US Department of Transportation report
given to Congress in November 2019
indicated that as of 2014 the nation
faced a 435 billion dollar backlog in
needed road and highway repairs the same
report found that to improve overall
pavement conditions the US would need to
increase annual investment in road
repair by 29% from about 51 billion
dollars annually to about 66 billion
dollars and you
at the same time traffic on roads is
increasing vehicle travel rose 8 percent
from 2013 to 2018 according to trip
improving US infrastructure tends to be
a popular political issue in the United
States and tends to attract bipartisan
support the impact of rough roads is
that it's causing the public more money
when roads are rough condition is
speeding up your vehicle vehicles gonna
wear out that much more quickly they
need more routine maintenance and also
they're using work more gasoline trip
estimates that the average cost for
American motorist is 603 dollars
annually driving on rough roads and that
total 130 billion dollars of additional
operating cost that falls on the
consumers with President Donald Trump
made improving u.s. infrastructure a key
issue in his campaign but Democratic
politicians have also called for more
investment in roads bridges highways and
other bits of infrastructure there is a
lot of nuance to this story
I just have tried to urge people to be
careful you know when they say the
American infrastructure is crumbling you
know and then universally poorly
maintained I think that's a simplistic
statement and I think it's a bit over
roads across the u.s. can be pretty bad
even terrible depending on a variety of
factors the roads highways and bridges
spanning the country are funded owned
and maintained by a complex cluster of
different government agencies at the
local state and federal levels the
federal government doesn't actually own
most of the roads in America save a
small percentage mostly on or around
federal properties such as national
parks most of the country's highways and
roads including the so-called national
highway system are owned and maintained
by States or municipal governments 75%
of roads in the u.s. are maintained by
local governments and another 19 percent
are maintained by the States according
to Trip however the roads state
governments maintain are often the most
heavily traveled and include the
interstate highway system the federal
government through the Highway Trust
Fund provides a considerable portion of
the money
to build and maintain the highways in
the national system 46 billion dollars
in 2019 that money is funded solely by
the federal gas tax which drivers pay
every time they pump fuel by the way the
government has not raised the gas tax
since 1993 more on that later the
federal highway administration gives
money from the trust fund to the states
to build and fix highways that meet
criteria set by the federal government
states also charge their own gas taxes
on top of the federal tax which they can
use to repair roads according to their
own guidelines then cities metropolitan
areas or other local governments fund
the repair and construction of their
roads typically through property taxes
or other sources of revenue what this
means is that someone can be driving on
a well-maintained highway onto a road
that seems riddled with potholes or is
an otherwise poor quality that is
because those two roads even though they
are connected to each other are funded
through two totally different systems
some who study the issues say the
large-scale roads that make up the
national highway system are actually
improving in quality it's the local
roads that tend to be struggling what
this means is there can be a huge
difference in quality from one road to
another poorer areas for example often
don't have the tax money needed to
repair their roads but wealthier areas
with a large number of roads can have
difficulty making repairs as needed as
well some parts of the country have a
harder time maintaining roads simply
because they have harsher climates which
puts more stress on pavement
the states that have the worst quality
roads are all over the country and
include Hawaii according to Trip and
based on Federal Highway Administration
data most of these roads are likely to
be maintained by local governments trips
researcher rocky Moretti told CNBC it is
worth noting that four out of those ten
states are in the Northeast where the
climate tends to be harsh in contrast
several of the states with the fewest
problems on their roads are in the
southern part of the country one of the
biggest issues facing surface
transportation at whatever level of
government seems to be a lack of steady
funding some groups such as the
Automobile Association of America that
are known as triple-a favor raising the
federal gas tax which hasn't been
touched since the
1990s the Government Accountability
Office says that the 18 point 4 cent per
gallon tax on gasoline enacted in 1993
is worth about 11 cents today due to
inflation the other problem is that cars
on the road are becoming more
fuel-efficient which is pushing down the
amount of gas customers need to buy
people who drive electric cars aren't
contributing to the highway fund at all
since they are not buying gas the more
common hybrid electrics and other
fuel-efficient vehicles become the less
money there will be going to repair the
roads through the gas tax in recent
years the Highway Trust Fund has relied
increasingly on general tax revenue to
cover its budgets rather than money from
the gas tax Congress transferred a total
of about 141 billion dollars in general
revenues on eight separate occasions to
the Highway Trust Fund from 2008 through
2015 according to the GAO funding
problems are expected to continue in
March 2016 the Congressional Budget
Office estimated that 107 billion
dollars in additional money would be
required to maintain current levels of
spending plus inflation from 2021
through 2026 notes the GAO with all
these changes taking place some argue in
favor of other ways to fund the national
highway system including developing a
new system that would charge drivers per
mile driven rather than charging attacks
for fuel in the meantime some states are
taking their own steps to compensate for
the declines in federal funding what
we've seen since 2013 is approximately
half the states have put in place
significant long-term increases in user
fees and that that's just been a
recognition that the money wasn't coming
from Washington or at least it had up
until now local governments were already
under a lot of stress trying to raise
their funding sources and so state
governments and pet have shown a lot
more willingness over the last several
years to step forward but now what we're
starting to see particularly at the
state level is a recognition into the
long-term future that ultimately at
least the motor fuel tax which has been
a critical source is going to have a
hard time
making up with the changes in technology
states such as Virginia are charging
state taxes to raise more money while
states such as Texas are experimenting
with something called managed lanes
where private companies install special
toll lanes on roads to allow drivers to
bypass traffic jams by paying a toll in
a patchwork system expect patchwork
solutions